Webster’s dictionary defines feminism as “the belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities”. In the pre-to-mid nineteen-hundreds, women were objectified and seen as inferior to men. The Feminist Movement in the nineteen-sixties radically changed how society saw women. Women became empowered and became functional members of the community. They began working alongside the chauvinistic men that had previously thought lesser of them. Propaganda and riots aided in achieving this equality of women. 

When analyzing the effects of feminism in modern day pop culture, there are two extremes: the “fuck bitches” attitude, and the “I am woman, hear me roar” attitude. An example of the “fuck bitches” attitude can be personified in rapper Nicki Minaj’s “Anaconda” music video; whereas, Katy Perry’s “Roar” expressed the “I am woman, hear me roar” attitude.

Nicki Minaj interprets feminism and the result of the Feminist Movement as women have gained the right to depend on a man to provide her needs.  Her song “Anaconda” starts out by identifying a drug dealer, Troy, that she is interested in. She reveals that Troy has plenty of money and is willing to buy her expensive gifts from esteemed fashion designer Alexander McQueen to “keep [her] stylish” if she will have sex with him (Minaj). Minaj proclaims that she will allow Troy to perform oral sex on her because he has a grill. A “grill” is decorative mouth jewelry that is often made of gold or platinum and contains diamonds. Later in the song, Nicki Minaj names another man that she needs to take care of her. Michael is a man who has ridden a motorcycle and has a “dick bigger than a tower, I ain’t talking about Eiffel”; meaning that he was rather well endowed in the genital region (Minaj). Minaj states that she “let him hit it cause he slang cocaine”. This leads to the conclusion that she allowed him to fornicate with her because he is wealthy. Nicki Minaj refers to the male sex as an “anaconda” and that the “anaconda” (a.k.a. the man) will only want the female if she is well endowed in the posterior region, further objectifying women. Later in the song, Minaj speaks to a particular audience. She says “this one is for my bitches with a fat ass in the fucking club”. This means that she is speaking to the loose-morale females who are well endowed in the posterior region. 

Nicki Minaj has become very successful in the music industry. She has won American Music Awards, BET music awards, and a Billboard award, just to name a few of her achievements. Needless to say, she in the eye of the media and idol to many young women. In Nicki Minaj’s “Anaconda”, she says that she would allow a man to “fuck her in her automobile” because he has money. That is how Nicki Minaj has carried on the Feminist Movement.

Pop singer Katy Perry uses a serious “Rosy the Riveter” approach in her song “Roar” to proclaim that women aren’t the frail dolls that society thinks they are, they roar. Katy Perry too addressed the topic of feminism by stating that she, just like pre-feminist movement, she used to bite her tongue, sit quietly, and agree politely. She admits that she forgot that times have changed and that women now have a choice in standing for what they believe in and being empowered individuals.  Katy Perry presents a new way of thinking about women, a view in which the woman is strong and independent and has  enough of being pushed down and getting herself up. She uses the phrase “like thunder gonna shake the ground” to state that the NEW modern woman has changed and won’t be the submissive servant that society has expected in the past, they will shake things up. After stating that women have changed, she encourages other women to be strong and stand up for what they believe in. She encourages women by telling them about the after effects of “Roaring”. She says that after gaining the confidence to “roar” she is now “floating like a butterfly, stinging like a bee, I earned my stripes. I went from zero to hero…I’ve got the eye of the tiger, a fighter, dancing through the fire. I am a champion and you’re gonna hear me roar.”

Webster’s dictionary defines feminism as “the belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities”. Nicki Minaj interprets feminism and the result of the Feminist Movement as women have now gained the right to depend on a man to provide her needs in exchange for sexual favors. She gives multiple examples of a “fuck bitches” attitude in her song “Anaconda”. Katy Perry comments on feminism to proclaim that women aren’t objectified anymore, they will roar. She empowers women to rise above their physical conditions and preconceived notions of what it is to “be a woman” in order to go forth and make their voices known and become what they truly desire. Popular artists, such as Nicki Minaj and Katy Perry, have formed a new revolution as to what women can do. This is the new Feminist Movement: Fuck Bitches? Or Roar?
